Who is Quentin Tarantino?
Quentin Jerome Tarantino (Knoxville, Tennessee, March 27, 1963) is an American director, screenwriter, producer, actor, cinematographer and film critic. He is the winner of two Oscars for Best Original Screenplay and was named the 19th greatest film director of the last 25 years according to a survey by Quartz through Metacritic.
He quickly rose to fame in the early 1990s with non-linear scripts, graphic violence, dark humor, female foot fetishism, pop culture references and rich dialogue in an ironic mix of humor and violence. He is widely considered one of the most important filmmakers of his generation.

Reservoir Dogs (1992)
Synopsis = A criminal gathers six bandits for a massive diamond heist. Something goes wrong and one of them is injured during the robbery and the bandits need to find out who betrayed them, which generates enormous tension in the group and weakens everyone.
Review = Released in 1992, this was the director's first film and was made for just $1.2 million. Something interesting in this production is that the robbery scene is not shown and that the entire film is almost always in the same location. For me, the best scene is the first one, where the gang is talking about various random topics, from a Madonna song to a tipping argument. The soundtrack is also a strong point of the production: they are great songs and very well reconciled with the story. Unfortunately, for me, the script loses strength when it starts to tell about the past of some characters, even if they delve deeper into the story. The film is available on HBO Max and Star Plus.

Pulp Fiction (1994)
Synopsis = A couple goes to rob a diner, but it doesn't turn out as expected. 2 Agents will perform a service that does not go as expected. A boxer does the unexpected. And a date doesn't go as expected.
Review = Released in 1994, it was one of the director's most acclaimed films, both by critics and audiences and consider one of the best movies of all the times. Its main characteristics are the non-linear script, the dialogues and the breaking of expectations. Again, the soundtrack stands out in several scenes. All the actors were nominated at the 1995 Academy Awards (the Oscar), but won only for Best Original Screenplay. The performances are very good, but Bruce Willis, despite his part in the story being very interesting in the film, he doesn't have a high load of expressiveness like the others, which for me is the only down point. The movie is available on HBO Max.

Jackie Brown (1997)
Synopsis = Based on a book, the story of Jackie Brown is told, a flight attendant who ran drugs for a crime boss. But she makes a deal with the cops to catch him.
Review = The book it is based on is called Rum Punch and the director has altered a bit of the plot and characters for his movie. It is Tarantino's film that was less acclaimed by the public, as it has fewer characteristics of the director himself, so much so that all the other scripts of his career were written by himself. I don't like it so much because its construction is very slow, but it presents good performances and a great direction. Its great highlight is certainly its soundtrack that borders on perfection and has great songs very well embedded in the film. The movie is available on Telecine.

Kill Bill I and II (2003 - 2004)
Synopsis = It tells the story of Beatrix Kiddo, a pregnant woman who is shot in the head at her wedding and is left in a coma for 4 years. After waking up, she goes after the members of the group that killed everyone at her wedding.

The film was to be released as a single feature, but it was divided into 2 parts for mere aesthetics and marketing, and at the time, hardly anyone would go to the cinema to see a movie of almost 5 hours. But the director considers it as a single film.

Kill Bill 1 = It was considered one of the most violent movies of all time. But it's not violence used to shock, but to tell a story, which is very well written. In this first part, the action stands out a lot and is very well choreographed and well directed. The acting is very good, the characters are well built and the soundtrack is amazing. Despite understanding violence, it goes a little overboard at times.

Kill Bill 2 = It's a very different movie from the first because it has more dialogue than action, but they are very interesting, well written and engaging. It has iconic scenes like training with Pai Mei and the scene where the protagonist comes out of a buried coffin. The highlight is the finale, which, despite not being a gigantic battle like the first, has one of the best dialogues in cinema involving Superman. It has its dull parts, but I think the second movie is better than the first. Both movies are available on HBO Max.

Death Proof (2007)
Synopsis = Tells the story of the stuntman Mike, who enjoys killing girls causing accidents with his car prepared for action scenes, but finds himself in danger when he chases some girls who are not so defenseless.
Review = It is Tarantino's strangest film, as it has screen failures, has a sequence that starts in black and white and is much slower than the others. It features a lot of dialogue, some interesting, others not so much. It manages to develop the protagonists well with these dialogues, but the story is a little shallow. The last 20 minutes of the movie are extremely exciting because it features a very well directed car chase, fast and furious level, and with an ending that mixes satisfaction and comedy. The movie is available on Telecine and Globoplay.

Inglorious Basterds (2009)
Synopsis = During World War II, in France, a group of American Jews known as Bastards spread terror among the Third Reich. At the same time, Shosanna, a Jewish woman who fled the Nazis, plans revenge when an event at her cinema will bring the party's leaders together.
Review = Released in 2009, the director spent a decade writing the script and it was the first time he felt comfortable changing a historical fact. It was a box office success and garnered several award nominations around the world. Something interesting is that the film is divided into 5 chapters, the main characters never meet and 4 different languages are spoken during the film: 40% English, 60% French and German and a little Italian. Here, Tarantino managed to build his best character: Hans Landa, who was brilliantly played by Christoph Waltz and won several awards for best supporting actor. Again, the film has many surprises and an amazing ending, as well as memorable scenes with great dialogue, such as the card game at the bar and the meeting between Shoshanna and Hans Landa. The movie is available on HBO Max and Prime Video.

Django Unchained (2012)
Synopsis = A newly freed slave intends to go after his wife with the unexpected help of a bounty hunter.
Review = Released in 2012, it was the director's first Wild West. Here, Christoph Waltz returns to play another great character: Dr. King Schultz and again won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor. The highlights of the film are the acid humor, the two types of violence, the peculiar soundtrack (there is the presence of rap in the middle of the shooting) and the dinner scene, which is phenomenal. It's about 30 minutes of dialogue so well done; it leaves you stuck in your chair. And a curiosity in this same scene is that Leonardo diCaprio broke a glass with his hands and cut himself, but continued acting. For me, it's a very well-developed story, with great performances and very well directed. The only flaw I see are some actions by Django, which made me like the character less, as they are similar to colonizer actions. The movie is available on HBO Max.

Hateful Eight (2015)
Synopsis = Searching for shelter from a blizzard, two bounty hunters, a prisoner and a man claiming to be sheriff meet four strangers in a cabin.
Review = The film's script was leaked in early 2014, before filming had even begun, and Tarantino dropped out of the project. In early 2015, after changing the ending, he returned and at the end of the same year he released The Hateful Eight in 70mm. Like Reservoir Dogs, the film takes place almost entirely in the same location: inside a cabin. There is no hero in the film, as all the characters are hateful (hence the name), but they are all very interesting, especially Daisy Domergue, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, who draws attention when she says anything. thing (and was nominated for best supporting actress at the 2016 Oscars). Although it has some action, especially in the last hour, it is a film built only by dialogues that generate enormous tension from beginning to end and that ends in a wonderful and unexpected way. It was the director's first film to have an original soundtrack, composed by Ennio Morricone and which won an Oscar in 2016. The movie is available on HBO Max and Prime Video.

Once Upon A Time In Hollywood (2019)
Synopsis = Mixing reality with fiction, on the one hand it follows Sharon Tate in her daily life, and on the other, actor Rick Dalton and his stunt double Cliff Buff trying to adapt to the transformations in Hollywood in the late 1960s.
Review = Released in 2019, it is by far the most beautiful film with the best setting of Tarantino's entire career. The performances are amazing, especially Leonardo DiCaprio and Brad Pitt. The various arcs of the film are very interesting, especially the one with diCaprio playing the role of villain in one of the series in which his character is filming, and the very tense scene in which Brad Pitt arrives at a ranch where his character filmed a series and suspects that the Mason family rippies who live there are taking advantage of the owner. Margot Robbie plays Sharon Tate, which for me only serves to make the last scene (which is wonderful) make sense, because she seems very dropped in the plot until the end. Just like Inglorious Basterds, the protagonists never meet in the plot, only in the last 10 seconds. The film earned multiple Oscar nominations and won Best Art Direction and Best Supporting Actor for Brad Pitt. The movie is available on Prime Video.